Event and Assets API cleanup (#911)
datatrails/datatrails-docs: content/developers/api-reference/events-api/index.md

**Note:** This page is primarily intended for developers who will be writing applications that will use DataTrails for provenance.
If you are looking for a simple way to test our API you might prefer our [Postman collection](https://www.postman.com/datatrails-inc/workspace/datatrails-public/overview), the [YAML runner](/developers/yaml-reference/story-runner-components/) or the [Developers](https://app.datatrails.ai) section of the web UI.

Additional YAML examples can be found in the articles in the [Overview](/platform/overview/introduction/) section.
{{< /note >}}

## Events API Examples

Create the [bearer_token](/developers/developer-patterns/getting-access-tokens-using-app-registrations) and store in a file in a secure local directory with 0600 permissions.

{{< note >}}
**Note:** You will need to create an Asset first in order to submit Events against it.
The dependency on Assets is being deprecated.
In a future release, Events will be created indecently from Assets.
{{< /note >}}

### Asset Reference

Capture the Asset ID by which the events will be associated.
See [Fetch All Assets](../assets-api/#fetch-all-assets)

```bash
ASSET_ID=<ASSET_ID>
```

{{< note >}}

> **Note:** DataTrails will be moving to an event centric design, removing the dependency to reference an Asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** DataTrails will soon be moving to an event centric design, removing the need to create and reference Assets to hold your Event collections.
```

  - /docs/api-reference/events-api/
---
{{< note >}}
**Note:** This page is primarily intended for developers who will be writing applications that will use DataTrails for provenance.
If you are looking for a simple way to test our API you might prefer our [Postman collection](https://www.postman.com/datatrails-inc/workspace/datatrails-public/overview), the [YAML runner](/developers/yaml-reference/story-runner-components/) or the [Developers](https://app.datatrails.ai) section of the web UI.

Additional YAML examples can be found in the articles in the [Overview](/platform/overview/introduction/) section.
{{< /note >}}

## Events API Examples

Create the [bearer_token](/developers/developer-patterns/getting-access-tokens-using-app-registrations) and store in a file in a secure local directory with 0600 permissions.

{{< note >}}
**Note:** You will need to create an Asset first in order to submit Events against it.
The dependency on Assets is being deprecated.

> In a future release, Events will be created indecently from Assets.

Reviewer 2: Was "indecently" the word you meant to use?

Event records in DataTrails are tokenized at creation time and referred to in all future API calls by a permanent unique identity of the form:

```bash

> assets/$ASSET_ID/events/$EVENT_ID

Reviewer: Interestignly this has been changed in the other direction before becasue people complained it was too hard to spot that $ASSET_ID is actually a variable. 
I don't personally see the problem but that's why it looks like that.
I'll leave it to you whether you want to continue with this change but if you do I recommend you also chnage the xxxx.... in the command block above

Author: Good catch. I was being surgical and didn't zoom out to see the consistency issue.
I've made them all consistent, including using CAT to generate the file, with a name that can be directly executed.
If someone just wants the json, they can select the mid section, removing the cat/EOF.

Reviewer 2: Might it not be better to use $ASSET_UUID, so as not to be confused with "Asset ID" (which we use elsewhere to include both the `assets/` and the `xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx`?

Author: This has been confusing at times. I'll change to `ASSET_UUID` when referring to just the UUID.

Author: done
